On 27th of November, a short one hour meeting was held to catch up with what is going on with chirpsounder.

People in attendance: Paul Bernhardt, Alex Chartier, Lawrence Coleman,
Arianna Corry, Nathaniel Frissel, Devin Huyghebaert, , Mike McCarrick,
Giuseppe Torri, Juha Vierinen

Key points:

Paul and Mike: New sounder transmitter on Cordova. This schedule
repeats every 5 minutes.  The chirp schedule actually starts at
00:00:05 UT (5 sec, not 5 msec after UT midnight) and sweeps from 2-20
MHz at 100 kHz/s, repeating every 5 minutes. This corresponds to
chirpt=285.00 in Juhaâ€™s chirpsounder software config. Paul is also
interested in setting up a chirpsounder receiver in Hawaii to
determine what frequencies to use for ocean scatter with HAARP.

Ocean scatter study:
https://munin.uit.no/bitstream/handle/10037/15375/article.pdf?sequence=3&isAllowed=y

Arianna and Giuseppe: New ionosonde receiver on O'ahu at U of Hawaii
campus, which is a very interesting location for observing JORN and
ROTHR. There are plans to conduct ionospheric research, study e.g.,
various tropospheric phenomena coupled with the ionosphere, study
transequatorial and transpacific radio propagation. Plans to write a
thesis related with measurements.

Alex: Ship receiver campaign to receive JORN and ROTHR. Compact
receiver on a balloon, and on the NASA WB57 aircraft observing the
eclipse. ITSI Topside sounding receiver to be deployed in ISS in April
2025. Can be used to receive ground based HF transmissions. 5-30 MHz
band. Deployed on "Japanese platform". 

Lawrence: A bunch of new code was commit to github to allow use of
multiple channels for interferometric polarization and angle of
arrival studies. One might need to edit C++ rx_uhd.cpp program to use
the GPSDO instead of Octoclock. This should be setup as a
configuration option in the future.

Nate: Running a chirpsounding receiver in Scranton continuously with a
database. Observations of WWV. New SDR: RX-888 MkII ($200) and Leo
Bodnar GPSDO ($200) could be used for chirpsounding. New WSPR hardware
network being setup.

Mike: Cordova receiver, Martyn's equivalent correction for converting
short baseline oblique ionograms to vertical ionograms. Receiver
running in Virginia continuously for several years. Database of UAF
ionograms exists.

Juha and Devin: New Deep learning software release for automatic
scaling of oblique ionograms. Master's thesis of Jens Floberg, which
provides a set of instructions for setting up a chirpsounder.

https://munin.uit.no/handle/10037/25828

https://github.com/AndreasKvammen/NOIRE-Net

https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/astronomy-and-space-sciences/articles/10.3389/fspas.2024.1289840/full

Actions:

- We need to review is the current format has everything we need or not.

- Improve labeling of plots. Mike McCarrick has code that could
  help. We should investigate pushing these improvements into git.

- Incorporate Mike McCarrick's Martyn's equivalent oblique to vertical
  ionogram correction into git.

- Support for interferometry and polarization. Lawrence working on
  improving these aspects. This has been done historically and the
  USRP hardware would support it.

- Figure out if we can run the software using a GPS stabilized RX-888 MkII SDR.

- Investigate proposal for setting up a database collect
chirpsoundings in a centralized database. Mike McCarrick is doing this
for his receivers already, which is a good start.

- Juha will help setup realtime processing for the new receiver in O'ahu.

- Organize another meetup. Look at organizing a session, or just have
  another informal on-line meeting.
